          Lions are often called the "king of the beasts". They are used as symbols representing courage. They appear in heraldry more often than any other animal. They are an icon of courage and royalty.

Lions live for 10 to 14 years when they are in the wild. When they are captured, they can live longer than 20 years. In the wild, males do not usually live longer than 10 years. This is because wounds from fighting with other males make their lives shorter


  Cats were probably first kept because they ate mice, and this is still their main 'job' in farms throughout the world. Later they were kept because they are friendly and good companions.

A young cat is called a kitten. Cats are sometimes called kitty or pussycat. A female cat that has not had its sex organs removed is called a queen. A male cat that has not had its sex organs removed is called a tom.

Domestic cats are found in shorthair, longhair, and hairless breeds. Cats which are not specific breeds can be referred to as 'domestic shorthair' (DSH) or 'domestic longhair' (DLH)




      Deer are a group of even-toed ungulate mammals. They form the family Cervidae.

A male deer is called stag or buck, a female deer is called doe, and a young deer is called fawn.

There are about 60 species of deer. They originally lived in the northern hemisphere, and now are native to Europe, Asia, North America and South America. Humans introduced deer to Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. 




  Horses are mammals of the family Equidae. They are herbivores, which means they eat grass and other plants. Some plants are dangerous for them like ragwort, lemongrass (oil grass) and sometimes acorns.

The common horse is the species Equus caballus. It was domesticated from wild horses by humans at least 5000 years ago. They are large, strong animals, and some breeds are used to pull heavy loads. Racehorses can gallop up to 30 miles an hour.

A male horse is a stallion, and a female horse is a mare. The general term for a young horse is foal. A young female horse is a filly, and a young male horse is a colt. A castrated horse is a gelding. Horses have hooves which need protection by horseshoes from hard or rough ground. 








      Foxes are swift and agile runners which live in family groups. A female fox is called a vixen, and the male is called a dog. Foxes' tails are multi-purpose organs. Their bushy tail helps them keep warm while they are sleeping in cold weather. It is also part of the animal's food store for wintertime. Foxes' plump bushy tail is easily seen, and is used for sending signals to its family members. The tail is also used for balance while running.








     Goose (plural geese) is the general English name for a large number of long-necked birds, belonging to the family Anatidae.

This family also includes the swans, which are mostly larger than geese, and the ducks, which are smaller and have short necks.

Both as chicks and as adults, geese show collective animal behaviour. Geese migrate in groups in the spring and fall, flying together in a V-shape.

A male goose is called a "gander" and a baby goose is called a "gosling". A group of geese is called a "gaggle".   
